# Webpack Initialization

## Description
This repo demonstrates the basic setup of a web development environment using Webpack. It includes configuration files and dependencies to get you started with bundling your JavaScript, CSS, and other assets.

## Installation
1. Clone this repository:

    https://github.com/Aryan-81/webpack_init.git

2. Navigate to the project directory:

    `/webpack_init`

3. Install dependencies using npm:

    `npm install`


## Usage

1. Start the development server:
```
npm run dev
```

This command will start a development server using webpack-dev-server and open your default web browser to view the project. It will automatically reload the page when you make changes to your source files.


2. Build for production:
```
npm run build
```
This command will bundle your project for production, optimizing and minifying your code for deployment.

3. Installing Dependencies:

When you run `npm install`, it will automatically execute the `postinstall` script, which installs all dependencies specified in the `postinstall` script. This includes webpack, Sass loaders, HTML Webpack Plugin, Babel, webpack-dev-server, and webpack-bundle-analyzer, among others.

## Scripts
- `postinstall`: This script is automatically executed after installing dependencies. It initializes a `package.json` file, installs webpack and its related dependencies, Sass loaders, HTML Webpack Plugin, Babel and its presets, webpack-dev-server, and webpack-bundle-analyzer.
- `build`: This script runs webpack to bundle your project for production.
- `dev`: This script starts a development server using webpack-dev-server.


## Structure
- `src/`: This directory contains your source code.
- `src/index.js`: Entry point for your JavaScript application.
- `src/styles/`: Directory for your CSS stylesheets.
- `src/assets/`: This directory is used to store static assets such as images, fonts, or other files used in your project. You can place your image files, fonts, or other static resources here, and they can be referenced in your HTML, CSS, or JavaScript files. These assets will be processed and bundled by webpack as part of the build process.

- `dist/`: This directory contains the output bundled files generated by Webpack. It is not tracked in the repository but is automatically created when you build the project using `npm run build`.


## Configuration
- `webpack.config.js`: Webpack configuration file. Modify this file to customize your build process.

## Dependencies

- **webpack:** Module bundler for JavaScript applications.
- **webpack-cli:** Command line interface for webpack.
- **sass-loader:** Loader for webpack to compile Sass/SCSS files.
- **style-loader:** Loader for webpack to inject CSS into the DOM.
- **css-loader:** Loader for webpack to resolve CSS imports.
- **html-webpack-plugin:** Simplifies the creation of HTML files to serve your webpack bundles.
- **babel-loader:** Loader for webpack to use Babel for transpiling JavaScript files.
- **@babel/core:** Core Babel functionality required for using Babel with webpack.
- **@babel/preset-env:** Babel preset for compiling JavaScript down to a version of ECMAScript that can run in current browsers.
- **webpack-dev-server:** Development server for webpack that provides live reloading.
- **webpack-bundle-analyzer:** Analyzes the size of your webpack bundles and generates a visual representation.

